Q.Introduce urself or tell me something abt
yourself?
A:Hi, My name is Anil Kumar Sahoo from bbsr.
I have 3 years of experience in the i.t
industry. I have been working as full stack
developer with front end in ReactJs,
backend in SpringBoot.I have worked for two
projects till now with the above technologies

Q.Tell us about your projects?
A.I have been part of 2 projects till date.
My current project is for verizon where we
are developing interfaces for the business
that would allow them to create new offers
for the customer and have appropriate 
approvals for the offers and then publish
those offers to the end users through an
automated route.
We also have a feature to allow the business
to configure the qualification for the offers
in other words to configure what type of
customers should get what offers
For example suppose ARU of some customers
are more and for some customers it's less
then business would be able to give 
different offers to the diffrent categories
of people


My first project was for santos where the
purpose was to build an web application that
gave the the clients a visualization of
various metrics related to all the oil
fields belonging to the client
The visualization was provided in the form
of various tables.
Business also had a feature where they could
enter information regarding registration of
a new oil field or an employee which would
be send to various stakeholders for approval
and once approved, the status would be
visible to the client


SpringBoot Interview Questions:-
Q.What is SpringBoot?
A.SpringBoot is a java based spring framework
that is used for rapid application developmen
t to create stand alone applications

Q.Features of springboot:-
A.-It helps in creating stand alone application
with minimum configurations
-It has an embedded tomcat server which makes
it code and run application directly
-It eliminates the need for any xml configu
ration


Q.Diffrence between spring and springboot?
A.Spring needs the developer to write a lot
of code to create the application but with
springboot we can start an app with minimal
code
SpringBoot has an embedded tomcat server which
helps us in running the app easier but in
spring we have to attch an server by ourselves

Springboot provides us with in memory db 
support lyk h2 but is not available in case
of spring

Q.Diffrence between restcontroller and contro
ller in springboot?
A.@Controller is basically used to return a
view to the client whereas @RestController
returns the object to the client in the form
of json or xml.. @RestController is a 
combination of @Controller and @ResponseBody

Q.Dependency Injection?
A.Dependency injection is a design pattern
that removes dependencies 

Q.Why oracle?
A.we can implement performance tuning in the
db which would make select and alter query
faster which leads to better performance
--It can manage multiple db instances on a
single server
--provides various editions so users can
choose their edition based on their requiremen
t.. also in future if the req change then mig
ation to another edition is easier
--

JAVA Questions:-
Q.What are SOLID principles in JAVA?
A.Single Responsibility-- Each class should
only have a single responsibility

Open Closed Principle-- A class should be 
open for extension that means dev can write
extra code but it should be closed for
modification i.e existing code should not
be changed. The only exception is when u need
to fix issues.

Liskov substitution-- A child class should be
able to replace the parent class without
changing the functionality of the program

Interface segregation means larger interfaces
should be segregated into smaller ones so
that class implementing them hv to override
fewer methods

Dependency inversion- decoupling between
various modules

Features of JAVA 8:-

Lambda expressions:- It helps us in writing
functional code in java

Functional Interface:- It is a interface that
has only one abstract method.It is used to
define the type of a lambda expression. U can
use @FunctionalInterface to apply the one
abstract method constraint to the inetrface

Optional class:- It is a new feature in java 8
which helps us in dealing with NullPointerExcep
tion

forEach method is provided which helps in
iterating through the elements.. in forEach
u can also pass in a lambda expression

Collectors is a class that helps us in 
operations
like accumulating elemnts into a collection

Why Blinkin? What do you know?
Blinkin is basically helping clients to serve
their customers in a better way which results
in benefits for both the end customer and the
client. Features such as providing bots that
can help you resolve your issue and also
connecting the customer directly to the
agent on a remote basis rather than directing
him to come onsite.You dont have to install
an app everytym u need help goes a long way
in actually satisfying the customer
Also clients can train their emplyees better
by using visual assistance
Two usecases are insurance n machinery indus
try. In insurance all services like verifying
damages, helping in other cases can be done
remotely. regarding machine we can have it
self repaired within a click of a button

What is @SpringbootApplication?
Ans- It is a combination of 3 annotations..
@Configuration,@EnableAutoConfiguration and
@ComponentScan

How to change embedded server in springboot?
Ans-> you need to exclude the default tomcat
jar from pom.xml and add the new jar dependency

jetty is a server that is lightweight and
uses less cpu n memory as compared to tomcat

web server basically works on http content
and serves static pages whereas application
server serves dynamic content

Springboot provides us another way of exceptio
n handling which is called global exception
handling.. here we define one class with
@ControllerAdvice n it handles exceptions for
all the classes without having to write 
try catch block within every method

Border is created inside the element whereas
outline is drawn outside the element

Generics:-
In java one imp feature is type safety
meaning the type of a variable is known at
compile time itself and nt at runtime

so u have to define the datatype of a 
variable in order to declare it.. It enforces
type safety.. But in case of collections
u could do smthig lyk
List values=new ArrayList();
values.add(1);
values.add("hello");

This will work while compiling but while
running it would fail

so in List<> u need to pass datatype n u cn
pass any datatype lyk Integer,Float or any
object

Now this is being possible due to the implemen
tation of List generic wherein in List
definition it is mentioned as List<E> which
means List can take in any type

Now wn ur creating a class n u want ur class
to be usable by different types in that case
u can specify a generic. The varible types
inside of it instead of being int or float
would be E or any upper case letter instead

ex:- class Solution<T>
{
T value;

public void show()
{
sysout(value);
}

In throws keyword we are basically delegating
the work of exception handling to the caller

in throw compiler would check for the nearest
catch of the exception type to handle exce
ption

Collection class in java has a set of methods
that we can use ex- addAll,copy,sort

Collection framework provides us a lot of
classes n frameworks which helps us in
storing and manipulation of data

Iterator traverses the elemnts in only
forward direction whereas ListIterator can
traverse the elements in both forward and
backward direction

List preserves the insertion order

Why do we ovveride equals method, wn comparing
2 objects java basically would be check if 
the refrence is same and the values inside
is same but suppose we want to equalize
based on some specific property of object
for ex id or name.. in that case we are 
supposed to ovverride equals method

convert arrays to arraylist using asList
method whereas do the opposite using toArray
method

wn we override equals it is advisable to
override hashcode as well..This is because
collections related to hash use the hashcode
for their purposes. if u dnt override hascode
dn issues myt arise

wn u run ur program a lot of objects might
be created which myt need a lot of memory
so java deletes the objects no longer in use
so that memory is nt overloaded

suppose u want java to garbage collect an
object depending on u in that case u have
to set object refernce to null dn call
System.gc n dn call System.runFinalization

finalize is a method that java always calls
before destrying or deleting an object

}

Java reflection:-

Reflectio is an API which helps us to exmaine
and modify behaviour of a class during
runtime

To examine or get details we have the
getClass,getMethods and getConstructors method

We can also call a method by using invoke
method of reflection api if we know the 
parameters.. we can also access a variable 
whose access is restricted

Drawbacks are slow performance n internal
details are being exposed

What is AWS?
aws is a cloud service which provides it
resources on demand

outbound basically means the traffic going
out of ur ec2 for ex u may need to connect
to inetrnet to install packages that u
may need..

Tell me about Deloitte?

Deloitte has been a leading global provider of
audit and assurance,consulting, financial and
risk advisory and tax advisory services and
has been working for about 150 years.. It
is also one of the top 4 accounting oragani
zations.

Why join deloitte?

In addition to challenging and meaningful work
, you’ll have the chance to give back to your 
community, make a positive impact on the 
environment, participate in a range of 
diversity and inclusion initiatives, and find 
the support, coaching, and training it takes 
to advance your career.

The other 3 are earnest and young,kpmg and
pwc...

GROUP BY SQL--
suppose u have multiple rows with one column
as same then to show it as one single row
by grouping the similar column together we
use group by

SELECT count(b.CustomerID) totalCount,b.CustomerID,
b.CustomerName
FROM Orders a
INNER JOIN Customers b ON a.CustomerID = b.CustomerID 
group by a.CustomerID order by count(a.CustomerID) desc
limit 1

To limit the num of rows returned u can simple
use limit followed by count

ebs is basically used as a storage for ec2
instances

U can mount volumes to ec2 instances

availability zone are the places that contain
servers,applications etc..

region denotes diffrent geographical location
.. they are a collection of az

edge locations are also data centres bt they
are more over used to cache data

content delivery network is a network of
servers that helps in serving web pages
depending on the geographical location of the
user

why is string immutable in java???
because string is stored in string pool and
a variable using a string is provided referen
ce if string in string pool.. suppose 
multiple variables are accessing the same
refernce dn if we allow to change the value
by one variable then all other other variables
having same reference would also get the
new value

Highradius questions:-
1.design patterns practice
custom exception practice
multithreading practice

java calls properties n methods associated
with an object by checking it's type n nt it's
reference.. so if B extends A n m1 is a method
in A n m2 is a method in B so
A a=new B();
here a is the object with type A n java will
nly associate a with class A n be able to call
methods n properties within class A

bt if a method is in B nly dn it will give 
error

Soppose u want a bean to be autowired into spring
boot dn u have to return a type in a method u
create n annotate it with @Bean.. U cn do this
in main class also

@Bean
public String getS()
{
return "anil";
}

This can be autowired into another class by using
the type

ex- @Autowired String a;

springboot will look into the datatype to decide
which bean to use

Now suppose u have two beans returning the same
type then springboot would not know which bean
to use.. In that case u can use @Qualifier n
provide the bean name u want to use so that
ambiguity is solved

so mention the bean as
@Bean
@Qualifier("naam")
@Bean
public String getS()
{
return "anil";
}


and wn u want to autowire it u could basically
use

@Autowired
@Qualifier("naam")
String s;

u could also solve the ambiguity by providing
one of the beans as primary in that case the
given bean will be used.. if u want to use the
other one u will hv to use qualifier

dependency injection is basically injecting a
class to another class so that injected class's
methods and properties can be used

Field injection-- basically wn u inject a class
by creating a variable of it and annotating it
with @Autowired...

@Autowired ServiceClass variable;

Constructor injection is basically wn u inject
a class into another class by passign the injected
class in the constructor of another class
and assigning it to the instance variable of the
type of injected class created inside the class
where it will be used

@RestController
Controllerclass{
private ServiceClass variable;

public ControllerClass(serviceclass variable)
{
this.variable=variable;
}

}


Setter Injection is basically creating an instance
variable and then writing a setter method for
the injected variable and annotating the setter
method with @Autowired

Final class basically means that it cannot be
inherited by any other class and it is immutable

Final variable basically means it value can't be
changed later.. if a refernce is assigned in that
case internal value in reference are changeable
but the refrence cannot be changed.. If it is
not assigned initially dn only we can assign 
it in other step

Final method basically means that the method 
cannot be overridden by other classes.. It will
give a compile time error.. bt overloading is
still possible

try with resources is an alternate way of writing
try catch finally block, wherein you first
mention the resources u wanna try n dn u use
dm inside ur try block n dn after ur completion
java makes sure to close the particular resource

resources u want to use n close should be mentioned
within the arguments of try

     try(Scanner sc=new Scanner(new File("C:/Users/LEGION/Desktop/anil.txt")))
     {
    	 while(sc.hasNext())
    	 {
    		 System.out.println(sc.nextLine());
    	 }
    		 
     }
     
     catch(Exception e)
     {
    	 System.out.println(e.getMessage());
     }

You can also mention multiple resources.. the 
only thing is it should be separated by a semicolon

You can wtite try without catch if u have a
finally block instead so a try finally can 
replace a try catch block

Adding n deleteion of an element at the start
is fastest in linkedlist as compared to arraylist
cos in arraylist if u insert a element at the
start dn all other elements have to be shifted
by one place

Addition n deletion of an element towards the last
or in the middle is fastest in arraylist

Searching is fastest in case of hash





