OAuth was initially intended to provide 
authorization between services

To understand oauth we can take the example of
parking attendant.. where rich people give the
car keys to parking guy n he parks the car for 
them.. now the parking guy might be notorious 
n may take the car for a long ride or may use
the key to look into whats present inside the
trunk.. in that case it might not be a good
idea to give the parking guy the main key.
A solution would be if the owner has a valet/
parking guy key which would have limited car
access like making the car on/off but wont have
other access like fuel tank,trunk etc

Take an example of a photo printing app which
take in an image from u n prints it n delivers 
to ur address. normally u would upload the
image to the app from ur device.. but nobody
saves images on their device now..they save it
on google drive. so now the app wants to allow
user to import from google drive.. now to get
access to google drive ur app needs to know
username n password f the account which the 
user vl not be happy sharing. so instead
the app calls the google drive service then
the google drive service notifies to the user
that a service is wanting to get some access
to the account n list the different accesses 
the service is asking for. the user verifies
the info n confirms if the user is ok with
giving the asked access.. upon confirmation
google sends back the service with an access 
token which he can use to get access..

Instead of building an authentication service
from scratch by yourself u could use OAuth
to leverage authentication already implemented
by google or facebook..

add spring web and spring security dependency

add spring security oauth2 autoconfigure

add enableoauth2sso annotation to the main
class

In order to use authentication from a third
party u need to first register yourself
with the third party

for facebook
go to developers.facebook.com
go to my apps
create app

in application properties u need to mention
various configuration related to third party
sso along with client id and secret which u 
would be getting

