EKS is elastic kubernetes service

AWS EKS provides u a managed kubernetes 
service meaning it handles creation of mastre
nodes, scaling and backup and maintainance
of kubernetes.. Users nly need to focus on
deployment and need to create the worker nodes

VPC is basically a space in aws that is 
created for u.. which does nt interfere with
other aws services

suppose u have a small project u can deploy
that using EKS

To get started with EKS need to do the 
following:-
1.create aws acc,iam roles 
2.create cluster control plane giving kuber
netes version n other details
3.create worker nodes and connect to cluster

steps are complex comaapred to mions kuber
or digitalocean but aws is really powerful

U can simplify the above process by using
eksctl which has been created by a group
of developers

first install weaveworks n dn eksctl

eksctl version to check if it is installed

first eksctl needs to authenticate with aws

need to provide access and secret key in a
file-- need to check

AWS EKS is a Managed Kubernetes Service from Amazon, which means AWS manages the Master Nodes for you. All the necessary applications/services are already pre-installed like the container runtime or master processes and in addition it also takes care of scaling and backups. 👍
You only create the Worker Nodes.

Learn about Master and Worker Nodes here: ► https://youtu.be/umXEmn3cMWY

--------  How to use EKS? -------- 
To create a K8s cluster in EKS you need to do following steps:
1) Setup or preparation steps
 - create AWS account
 - create a VPC - virtual private space
 - create an IAM role with Security Group (or in other words: create AWS user with list of permissions)
2) Create Cluster Control Plane - Master Nodes
 - choose basic information like cluster name and k8s version
 - choose region and VPC for your cluster
 - set security
3) Create Worker Nodes and connect to cluster
The Worker Nodes are some EC2 instances with CPU and storage resources.
 - Create as a Node Group
 - Choose cluster it will attach to
 - Define Security Group, select instance type etc.

With NodeGroup you have autoscaling, which means based on your needs depending on how much load the cluster has new Worker Nodes will automatically added or removed in the cluster.

 - For that you need to define max and minimum number of Nodes.

--------  Complex, but powerful and popular -------- 
You're right, that's a lot of effort for just creating a simple Kubernetes cluster. Compared to other managed Kubernetes services, like DigitalOcean or Linode it's more complex.

So, how to do it, when you just want to create a cluster and start deploying your containers inside as fast as possible. 

Instead of doing all those steps manually, there is a faster and more efficient way.

--------  eksctl to the rescue  -------- 
eksctl is a simple CLI tool for creating clusters on EKS. With just one command you create a cluster in minutes.
I'm a huge fan of understanding the concepts of how a technology works, but if there are tools that make working with this technology much easier then I like to use them. Usually those tools are built by community, which specialized in this technology. So it makes sense to use this knowledge.

So in the demo we will create the Kubernetes cluster using eksctl.


eksctl create cluster--- will create a 
cluster with all the defaults ex cluster
name,k8 version etc.. u can also override the
defaults

in some tym clusters get created

